                                       DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HTTP1.1 & HTTP2 
  
HTTP stands for hypertext transfer protocol & it is used in client-server communication on the World Wide Web.
By using HTTP user sends the request to the server & the server sends he response to the user.
 There are several stages of development of HTTP but we will focus mainly on HTTP/1.1
It's created in 1997 & HTTP/2 was created in 2015.


HTTP1.1-
            Developed by Timothy Berners-Lee in 1989 as a communication standard for the World Wide Web.
            HTTP is a top-level application protocol that exchanges information between a client computer and a local or remote web server.
            In this process, a client sends a text-based request to a server by calling a method like GET or POST. 
            In response, the server sends a resource like an HTML page back to the client.
            HTTP have been few revisions to the protocol. But in 2015, a reimagined version called HTTP/2 came into use. 
 web developers can benefit from understanding the technical differences 
between HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2, allowing them to make informed and efficient decisions about evolving best practices.


HTTP2- 

          HTTP/2 was developed over the SPDY protocol. 
         HTTP/2 works on the binary framing layer .extual that converts all the messages in binary format. 
         It works on fully multiplexed that is one TCP connection is used for multiple requests. HTTP/2 uses HPACK which is used to split data from header.
         It compresses the header.The server sends all the other files like CSS & JS without the request of the client using the PUSH frame.
         several methods to decrease latency, especially when dealing with mobile platforms and server-intensive graphics and videos. 
         HTTP/2 has  increasingly popular, with some estimates suggesting that around a third of all websites in the world support it. 
         
        

               



                                                                       HTTP1.1                                                         HTTP2

                                                               
                                                   1.The usest works on the textual format.	                 It works on the binary protocol.
                                                        

                                                  2.There is head of line blocking that blocks               It allows multiplexing so one TCP connection is required for multiple requests.
                                                    all the requests behind it until it 
                                                    doesn’t get its all resources.	
                                                       

                                                3.It uses requests resource Inlining for use                 It uses PUSH frame by server that collects all multiple pages
                                                   getting multiple pages	 
                                                               

                                               4. It compresses data by itself.	                       It uses HPACK for data compression.
